# hackMol2.0
Team : Unravel The Hack
Hackmol2.0 2021 

# Problem Statement—
India is a rapidly changing country where high quality education and grooming for athletics and arts is of utmost interest for its bright future. There are more than 600 million people in India under the age of 25 and a total of 28 percentage of the population is aged less than 14 years of age (WENR report of 2018) distributed in different cities and rural areas across nation. But here’s the fact that you might not be knowing that more than 27 percent of the country’s youth are excluded from education, employment, or training. The mentality where parents believes that academic qualification is the only way to succeed in life has led to a steep decrease in the number of sportsperson and other artistic skills. There is no way to identify students who excels in studies, sports, or arts and then there are students in areas where lack of resources or financial background makes it impossible for them to complete even the basic education. To resolve these a website can be created where the data of all the students can be upload by educational institutes or parents and these data can be analyzed on different measures. With this data, highly performing students, or students who need financial help or can achieve good results if provided with good training can be identified and special attention can be given to them.

# Abstract-
In the website, we will have 3 levels that are the students (this can also include their parents), Institutes(they are the different educational and other organizations that the students are part of) and finally on the highest level of hierarchy are the Admins( they are comprised of the Govt. officials or organizations that can help the students).Now the institutes will upload the results of all the students based on their studies, sports and extracurricular activities to the database starting from the year they start going to schools. Student details like Aadhar card number will be taken that needs to be verified also. A parent or Institute can upload the result of students they can be cross verified and scanned copy of all the Original certificates can be used in this regard. To be able to upload the data to the website, the parents or institutes will first have to register on the website and using those registered credentials they can upload or update the data. So, every institute/parent will have a verified unique id and password and the student’s data can be uploaded once in a year and can be updated on regular intervals.
After collecting all the data, the next step is to analyze and sort the data based on several parameters(like academics, sports, arts but also the students financial condition, region also score in different competitive exams or events).The algorithms designed will perform these operations and provide a well arranged and sorted data. Some efficient and optimal algorithms can be used to sort the data obtained from the database and these details can be used by the admin.
The next step is providing the list of students that are on the top of their respective fields. This data can be broken down in different levels like nation, states, and districts so that a large range of students can come into the picture. We can also have the list of institutes that are on the top in different areas to make it easier for a student to choose an institute of his/her liking that provides the best results. 
The last step involves the Admin. The officials in the admin department will also have verified and unique id and password. These people will be provided with the list of merit students and students who have achieved good results according to year and different fields. Now they can use this data to help the students in need. Like Financially weak students can be provided with free classes or training like the free JEE/NEET classes conducted by UP Government, students with higher intellectual can be provided with special training like Olympiad, if the result of a student abruptly goes down or he/she leaves the school then we can flag this and the people in admin can have an inquiry as to why this happened(Child labor/marriage and accidents are most common cases).If the Govt. is making any new scheme and they have this data then they will know in which field most help is needed and who should receive maximum benefit from that as there are only finite recourses to provide. 
With this we are going to solve the above mentioned problem by providing a Web Application to store the data and to identify merit students, provided by the institutes and parents and cross checked by admin and give this data to people with power to use that and help the deserving students reap its benefits. 

# Keywords:

1.	Web based application.
2.	Aadhar number is used as primary key.
3.	Three level system in the database i.e. Admin – Institute – Student.
4.	Data will be uploaded once a year by institutes and parents and cross verified by admin. Updating the data can be done on regular bases.
5.	Analysing and selecting meritorious students based on different bases (like Academics or extracurricular activities like- dancing, drawing, cooking etc. or sports like cricket, football, badminton etc.) 
6.	Identifying extra talented students who can be given extra attention and training (like preparing for Olympiads, giving art lessons and giving coaching in different sports)
7.	Poor students or students where there is lack of good resources of study (lack of family income, problem with school infrastructure or worse schools in that area) can be given the help from Govt. or NGO who can provide them with funds or other resources.
8.	We can also flag some events where a student who was at good position in merit list for consecutive years didn’t get any place in the list or even got his/her name removed. This might happen due the case of child labour or marriage or human trafficking so these issues can also be recognised and solved using this. 

# Technology Stack:
We have made this Website using MERN stack where the database is managed using MongoDB database program. The next level is the Express.js server-side framework, running inside a Node.js server. React.js is the JavaScript framework for creating dynamic client-side applications in HTML or the frontend for the website. Node(.js) is the premier JavaScript web server for our website.
